Docker
	installed
	run a docker image from hub.docker.com
	create a docker image of a spring boot application that we created
	docker image is tagged to the docker hub repository
	pushed the same into docker hub

	After that, your docker hub image can be run from any other computer where docker is installed.



when you have an application that connects with a database (ex: mysql)
in that case, mysql runs in a separate process 
spring boot application runs in a separate process.

the challenge you face in docker is how to run 2 docker images and those 2 processes be able to connect with each other.

i) use network to connect mysql from spring boot
ii) docker compose	(used to specify multiple docker images in one execution)	yml


Already there is a mysql image in docker hub portal

we can use that mysql image and run it as a container. Once it becomes a container, then mysql is running in your system. (remember, even if mysql is not present in your computer, we can use docker image of mysql)

1) create a network
	docker network create jf011-mysql
2) create mysql container
	docker container run --name mysqldb --network jf011-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=root -e MYSQL_DATABASE=jf011 -d mysql:8

3) in our spring boot application, 
	we are going to use these information in application.properties
		url, driver, username, password

	in url, usually we do
		jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/jf011

	but now, it will be
		jdbc:mysql://mysqldb:3306/jf011


HOW WILL YOU GO TO MYSQL PROMPT 
	to create database
	to create tables
	to check records

Run the below command to get the mysql command prompt:		
		docker container exec -it mysqldb bash
login to mysql using:
		mysql -uroot -p


show databases;
use jf011;

we create a project and test it using local mysql database connection.
Then we change the application.properties with docker mysql connection information. But it will not run.
So we create .jar / .war file using maven clean install 	-Dmaven.test.skip=true

since we do not do this in cmd prompt, we right click and maven build. while typing clean install, we see option to skip test also. Tick that check box and get war


Create a docker image of our mvc project
	docker image build -t docker-mysql-demo-1 .


check docker images


docker container run --network jf011-mysql --name jf011-mvc-mysql -p 5000:5000 -d docker-mysql-demo-1