Docker
	install docker
	start docker engine
	check the docker images in our system
	check the docker containers running in our system
	learnt to remove images and containers

	run docker images from hub.docker.com
	create docker images 
	tag the docker image to a repo in hub.docker.com
	push the docker images to repo in ....

	run mysql in a network
	run docker image in the same network
		so that the docker image application (mvc) can access the mysql (ie., also an image) using same n/w


Kubernetes
	what do you know about container?
		a running instance of docker image is the docker container.
		an application runs in a container. This makes our deployment process easier.
		container contains all that are required to run a program	
			OS features,	
			memory
			system files
			jre

	we are going to deploy our application in AWS/ GCP/ Azure
		these are Giant Cloud service providers.

	Amazon	
		AWS		Amazon Web Services
	Google
		GCP		Google Cloud Platform
	Microsoft
		Azure		Azure Cloud

so, when we deploy (means, upload) our project, the cloud, should be able to provide all that supporting platform, jre, etc. in order to ensure that our project runs exactly as it runs in our local computer.

to avoid this trouble, what if we deploy our application as a docker image??????????

Now, we are concerned about the scalability and elasticity of the application.

Scalability is the ability to scale to changing needs.
	if more users or more transactions, happen, i need or consume more resources
	and same as less also.
	This is called scalability.

	You need to attend a session for 8 hours, you subscribe mobile data for around 4 gb
	You have only half day then you can subscribe only 2 gb

scale to the growing or decreasing needs, using same infrastructure.
but if you can provision more infra then it is elasticity.

auto-scaling

Elasticity	=	Elastic Scalability

When you come to elasticity, we are talking about running our application in a cluster of nodes (rather than a single node)

Cluster
	in 2004, i came to know that Google uses around 40k servers as a cluster.
	can give your search result less than a second.
	in those days, when we search for a file in our local hard disk, it takes several seconds to find a file.
	
Docker - we run an application in one container
Kubernetes - we run an application in cluster


in AWS
	kubernetes is called as EKS		Elastic Kubernetes Service

minikube
	can be installed in our computer and do kubernetes orchestration

eksctl
	can be installed so that we can deploy our application in AWS EKS

---------------------------------
How many of you have aws account?

https://aws.amazon.com/

